hi my name is Mandy Potter and you're
cooking with healthy girl today I have
two very special helpers with me in my
kitchen my children Madeline and
Alexander and they're here to help me
show you guys how to make my chocolate
chip cookies these cookies are sweet and
chocolatey and a perfect treat for any
kid of any age mom included so let's get
started now i'm going to have Madeline
help me I've got some butter already in
my bowl and it's at room temperature now
what I did was let it sit out if you
can't put it in the microwave for about
10 seconds until you get it soft don't
melt it because then your cookies are
gonna be running you don't want that ok
Madeline can you put the canola oil in
here now I do a butter and canola oil
mix because then we're not getting as
much saturated fat in our cookies by
using the canola oil and we're going to
add our sugars so put the sugar in the
brown sugar and Madeline and this sugar
is low about half the amount of sugars
that I've seen in most chocolate chip
cookie recipes but I promise these are
nice and sweet go ahead yep alright now
that we got all that in we're going to
blend it with our mixer just to get it
creamy so let's get this me right help
me hold it
alright now that we have all of our
sugars and veteran oil blended together
we are going to add our vanilla milk and
eggs so Alice can you add the vanilla in
for me we're it on in and I do a whole
tablespoon of vanilla because i really
enjoy the flavor of it and so I do a
pretty good tablespoon of it and add the
milken and I put milk in just to help
with the creaminess are we being silly
ok and then we are going to add our egg
in and then we are going to take and mix
it until it is nice and creamy again you
wanna help me with this all right here
we go
alright now that we have everything
creamy and the egg is incorporated in I
went ahead and added my flowers I have
all purpose flour and whole wheat flour
and we are going to take and mix that up
for me kiddos don't get it out we went
all that in there that means more
cookies for us alright and then you guys
we're going to pour it in and I'm going
to show them first what we do you're
going to fold it in so you're going to
take and fold it in and really get it
incorporate it down into the bottom so
every little bit is getting in there and
then I'm just going to let the kiddos
start mixing up keep it in there don't
mix fast and this is always a fun thing
I want my kids in my kitchen cooking
with me because this is teaching them
how to cook at home how to be healthy
and have fun with it it's a family fun
thing to do now we're going to get that
all mixed up and then we're going to add
our chocolate but I've got a tip for you
on the chocolate okay now let's talk
chokolate for a second now whenever I'm
making anything requires chocolate chips
i buy a chocolate bar that semi sweet so
you're still getting the same thing as
type of chips except for you're getting
more of the nutritional benefits of pure
chocolate with a chocolate chip you're
getting more of a candy so we might as
well get some nutritional benefits from
our chocolate and when you put this in
the cookie it melts down perfectly and
you get a more gooey uzi and chocolate
that you'd want in every bite and it not
as many calories which is excellent all
right so i took my steak knife and I cut
my chocolate up and i'm going to add it
on in and just mix it up with my cookie
dough then i'm going to take and drop
this with a tablespoon scoop on to a
sprayed baking sheet and put it in the
oven for about 9 to 11 minutes hey guys
how did these smell so yummy and that
you are now
and that's the wonderful thing about
these they're gonna make your house
smell so great that nobody has to know
that they're healthy I just want to give
a big thank you to my kiddos for helping
me bake today and look for this recipe
and many more in my new cookbook cooking
with healthy girl everyday recipes made
healthy you'll also find four weeks of
menus and grocery list along with a
staple section and don't forget log on
to my website cooking with healthy girl
calm where you'll find more us more
videos more recipes and lots of helpful
information